Beditd -- Binary file editor inspired by DOS edit

Compilation:

Install freepascal and development headers for ncursesw e.g.

apt-get install fpc libncursesw5-dev

Then to build the program simply run make

usage:

beditd [-e <encoding>] [<file> [<width or mode>]]

Beditd is a binary file editor where each byte in the file is represented by a
character on the screen. It is not a hex editor or a text editor. It requires a
UTF-8 terminal.

Users can navigate the file and insert text much as they would in a text editor.
Arbitary byte values can also be inserted in either hex or decimal.

Function keys control the editor, these are listed at the bottom along with the
byte value at the cursor and the current location in the file.

The default symbol set is based on (but not identical to) MS DOS code page 437.
Alternatively the user may specify a single-byte ASCII-based encoding supported
by iconv and the editor will use it to generate a symbol set.

The <width or mode> setting can be either a width in characters or one of the
"text modes" discussed below. If it is not specified it defaults to the width of your
terminal.

Normally beditd splits the file into lines of the specified width without regard
to any line ending characters. A user-specified width is useful for files
containing fixed-size records as the user can specify a line width matching the
size of the record and then see one record on each line.

Beditd also offers "text modes", in these modes rather than using fixed length
lines beditd will split lines after line ending characters. Also pressing the
enter key will insert a line ending in addition to splitting the line. This mode
is intended to facilitate editing files that use a text-based structure but may
contain arbitary binary data, it is not intended to be a general purpose text
editor.

T : text with auto-detected line endings.
TCR : text with CR line endings
TLF : text with LF line endings
TCRLF : text with CRLF line endings

The only difference between the modes is the type of line ending inserted when
the enter key is pressed. When reading or reshaping lines will still be broken
after all three types of line ending.